so you've signed up to take on the toast
rooll at your local Toast Masters Club
and now you're panicking you're not sure
exactly how to take on the role what it
should look like don't worry you've come
to the right place in this video I'm
going to show you a live example of me
delivering a toast at my local Toast
Masters Club and I'll walk through what
things you should really focus on to
ensure you crush this role when you take
it on at your Club hey everyone my name
is Wade Patterson my YouTube channel is
all about public speaking impactful
communication and I do a lot of videos
about the Toast Masters roles through
Toast Masters International if any of
those subjects are something that you
think you could benefit from please
subscribe to my channel comment on this
video let me know where you're watching
from and give the video a like what I
love about the toast roll is that it is
one that is easy to pick up even if
you're a new member to the club often we
know what the theme of the upcoming
meeting is going to be if we have that
information we can prepare a short one
to TW minute toast revolving around that
particular theme and in my opinion
taking on the toast is easier than
answering a table topics question
because you have that opportunity to
prepare for it you're not caught off
guard in this video example we're going
to look at one of my Toast Masters
meetings from December of last year and
the theme happened to be Global
Christmas traditions which will make
more sense when you see the sweater that
I'm wearing let's take a look at how I
did delivering the toast at this meeting
that was focused around Christmas
traditions
nav Jo
Noel Merry Christmas thank you madam
Toast Master Madame area director fellow
Toast Masters and all of our Toast
Masters on Zoom as Boya mentioned the
theme of the day is Christmas traditions
around the world I've had the great
pleasure and opportunity to experience
Christmas on four different continents
of course in North America as so many of
us in this room have experienced I've
enjoyed over the years many celebrations
with family and friends 20 years ago I
had the opportunity to go on a family
trip to Australia and it is is much
different over there during Christmas
time because that is their summer we
spent Christmas day on the beach and had
a barbecue that
evening 12 years ago we were in the
Middle East in Bahrain and while not
everybody in the country celebrates
Christmas there we had a lot of family
and friends and found a small expat
community in fact there was a small
number of us made those individuals feel
like family and we enjoyed the
celebration together over the last
decade I've had a number of
opportunities to spend Christmas in
England and I've become addicted to
copious amounts of crumpets Cups of Tea
and keeping an eye on which song would
become Christmas number one what I've
learned over the years is that it
doesn't matter where the location is
Christmas is about spending time with
the ones you love experiencing the joy
and the memories with those people so
I'd ask that you stand with me if you
can raise a glass and toast to Global
Christmas Joy Global Christmas Joy
WooHoo for those of you who have seen
other examples of my live Toastmaster
example videos I have to apologize on
this one what you may have noticed is
that the sound wasn't quite as good as I
usually like it to be I discovered at
the last minute my mic had run out of
batteries I was then recording off of
the internal mic my camera so the
quality wasn't quite there but I have to
say overall I was pretty happy with how
that toast went over what were my
strengths in this toast well to start I
introduced the toast by saying Merry
Christmas in three different languages
and that is something that captured the
audience's attention right away it was a
unique start to a toast the second thing
I felt like I did pretty well in that
toast was was using pauses instead of Oz
or ums Oz and ums are what we like to
call crutch or filler words and I've
done a lot of video content about why we
often as public speakers use these
filler words instead of silence your
goal as a public speaker should be to
eliminate crutch words from your speech
and I felt like I did a pretty good job
with this Toast of not relying on any
crutch or filler words the final thing I
felt like I did pretty well with this
toast Master's toast was the conclusion
the thing that we actually toasted to I
kept it short and sweet with three words
to Global Christmas Joy one of my pet
peeves when it comes to Toastmaster
toast is often the thing that people end
up toasting is a long sentence that the
audience struggles to remember what it
is they're supposed to say as they raise
a glass and toast my advice is to try to
keep it to three four words maximum the
shorter the better if you can toast one
word and everyone stands and says that
together nobody is going to forget what
that word is but every single additional
word you add on it makes it harder for
the audience to remember keep your toast
the thing you actually toast to short
and sweet all right on to how I could
have made this toast even better or
areas that I need to improve for future
toasts the first I think there was a
bigger opportunity to add humor than
what I tried or attempted to do in that
speech at no point did I really have the
audience laughing I think that sometimes
you can get carried away with trying too
hard to be funny but this was a toast
that had opportunities to add in a thing
or two that could have increased the
audience laughter why do we want to make
the audience laugh it does two powerful
things when we're a public speaker the
first is that it relaxes your audience
once they are laughing they're chilled
out they know this is going to be an
enjoyable speech they relax but the
second thing it does is it relaxes you
as the speaker when you hear that
audience laughter it is one of the most
calming things when you're standing on
stage or standing in front of a group of
people because you know you have their
attention you've captured them and
you've got that confidence to continue
going on and humor is one of the
powerful devices to achieve that another
thing I could have done a little bit
better in this toast was the fact that I
forgot to bring a glass of water up with
me therefore when I actually went to
toast to Global Christmas Joy I was
scrambling back to my seat to retrieve
that glass of water come back up to the
front and to drink it it wasn't terrible
terrible but it would have been a lot
smoother more seamless had I had that
glass of water with me or even if I was
holding it while I delivered the speech
but you want that to be nearby for me it
was a little bit awkward I go off camera
for a second I kind of turn my back to
some of the other audience members as I
retrieve my glass therefore that is an
area I could have improved D and
something to keep in mind for my next
toast as I mentioned earlier in the
video the toast is one of those roles
that I think is such a great one for new
Toast Masters members to take on let me
know in the comments is this a role
you've taken on before are you planning
to take it on at an upcoming meeting if
so good for you I hope that this video
and the live example helps you out and
if you've made it this far through the
video I'd really encourage please
subscribe be to my channel because it is
my goal to not just put a few of these
videos out but many live Toast Masters
examples covering all sorts of the rules
that you may come across in a toast
Master's meeting I want to help navigate
you through those rules and explain how
you can do them at a very high level
thank you so much for watching this
video and I'll catch you on the next one
video if you are looking for a little
bit of coaching help with your next
speech I am providing oneon-one of
evaluations my contact email is in the
video description reach out to me and
let's discuss what that could look like